Caption: hi there i'm donna boyd and i'm actually
Caption: universe and today we're going to talk
Caption: to you about product ownership and what
Caption: is it but before we get started we just
Caption: want to take a moment to celebrate how
Caption: wonderful it is that we get to stand
Caption: here in burulu and we want to pay our
Caption: respects to the traditional custodians
Caption: of the land who are the wajak people of
Caption: the nongo nation and express our
Caption: gratitude to them for their continuing
Caption: contributions to the land that we're on
Caption: we also want to take a moment to
Caption: actually thank our sponsors because
Caption: without whom
Caption: ddd wouldn't happen
Caption: and big shout out to journey one as well
Caption: for believing in us thank you very
Caption: much all right so let's get started so
Caption: as i mentioned i'm going to avoid and my
Caption: history really started around about 15
Caption: years ago i started working in digital
Caption: and the technology
Caption: technology space i was always going to
Caption: have a little bit of a blooper um so i
Caption: started there about 15 years ago and
Caption: probably 2012 was when i first got
Caption: exposed to the role of a product owner
Caption: and since then i've been on the path of
Caption: discovery of what that actually means
Caption: hey everyone i am aish srinivas as we
Caption: mentioned earlier as well so contrary to
Caption: donna's decade of experience or so i've
Caption: only been figuring out what it means to
Caption: be a product owner for the last 10
Caption: months give or take i'm really
Caption: passionate about the intersection
Caption: between business technology and social
Caption: impact
Caption: um but i've become more and more curious
Caption: about the product owner role and how
Caption: pivotal it can actually be in the
Caption: success or otherwise of a project
Caption: so we'd just like to call out that we're
Caption: not superheroes in this space but we are
Caption: super curious
Caption: absolutely
Caption: so true product ownership style uh what
Caption: we've done is really kind of collected
Caption: some research to understand what are the
Caption: common questions so some of the
Caption: questions and some of the challenges
Caption: that people have are do we know what it
Caption: means is it something that we want to be
Caption: how do we get there
Caption: yes so that's where we started
Caption: we also understood that these are some
Caption: of the challenges that we want to be
Caption: able to address some of the problems
Caption: we'd like to tackle in our conversation
Caption: here about what what the value of a
Caption: product owner actually is and how
Caption: sometimes it can be undervalued at
Caption: organizations and we want to be able to
Caption: understand how we can achieve the
Caption: outcomes that our customers love with a
Caption: true product
Caption: owner so really that links through to
Caption: our vision so every product owner should
Caption: have one
Caption: our vision is that this talk will help
Caption: you understand what product owner is at
Caption: its core and how to navigate some of the
Caption: challenges in both being one and working
Caption: with one so if you're one of the nice
Caption: people that voted for this talk uh what
Caption: we've just shared with you is the actual
Caption: brief that we submitted for this talk
Caption: ah before we move on has anybody here
Caption: worked in agile before
Caption: talk right um has anybody here seen a
Caption: backlog before
Caption: cool
Caption: just two of us then
Caption: has anyone here seen a user story
Caption: yes great
Caption: so if you have seen one you might have
Caption: seen one that looks a little bit like
Caption: this so in the interest of behaving like
Caption: product owners we actually turned this
Caption: talk into a user story which every
Caption: backlog item should hopefully have
Caption: and we wanted to think about it from the
Caption: perspective of our users which are you
Caption: so as a ddd attendee i want to
Caption: understand more about product ownership
Caption: and what it is so that i can understand
Caption: why they are valuable and if i want to
Caption: be one
Caption: let's go through some of the acceptance
Caption: criteria that we've written with you as
Caption: our users in mind
Caption: we hope that you'd be able to walk out
Caption: of this with an understanding of agile
Caption: and where the product owner role came
Caption: from
Caption: we hope that you'll be able to
Caption: understand some common challenges with
Caption: the role whether that is being a product
Caption: owner or working with one
Caption: we hope that we'll be able to understand
Caption: some common anti-patterns and actually
Caption: what an anti-pattern is
Caption: you hope that you're able to understand
Caption: different stakeholder types that you
Caption: might come across as a product owner and
Caption: give you some tips on how you might deal
Caption: with them it's probably the most fun
Caption: part i think so
Caption: i'm looking forward to it and finally an
Caption: idea and how to get started if after all
Caption: of this you actually really want to be a
Caption: product owner
Caption: so with that in mind i'm going gonna try
Caption: to give you a five minute rundown in
Caption: agile so
Caption: do this in five minutes we're on to a
Caption: winner so let's rewind back to 1986
Caption: which was obviously before my time
Caption: the new product development game was a
Caption: report that was written and published in
Caption: the harvard business review and it was
Caption: written by hiroteka and ikejiro did i
Caption: say them right you did yes
Caption: and what they talked about was
Caption: how the change was happening in
Caption: technology of how people developed
Caption: products
Caption: they went to different different
Caption: organizations who were doing really well
Caption: and wanted to understand what were their
Caption: patterns in those teams so that they
Caption: could try and like identify them and
Caption: share them with the rest of the tech
Caption: community so what they noticed and i
Caption: won't go too deep into it you can google
Caption: it and you can read it it's pretty large
Caption: so the key thing that i'd like to talk
Caption: about is normally it was done
Caption: sequentially so when you're rolling out
Caption: a project or a product you would do one
Caption: stage then you would move on to the next
Caption: stage so i think you get gather
Caption: requirements you would do the design
Caption: then you'd do the test then you would
Caption: build then potentially no one would use
Caption: it uh just joking but what they noticed
Caption: was the new companies instead of
Caption: operating in that kind of relay race
Caption: they actually take it took on more of a
Caption: rugby scrum type of format which was
Caption: where they had regular communication
Caption: they would pivot if things were changing
Caption: or not going so well and they would
Caption: learn really early on
Caption: what they need to change towards so
Caption: that's 1986
Caption: a history of agile so i don't claim to
Caption: know all of the
Caption: different methodologies in agile because
Caption: there's about 50.
Caption: what i will say when you see this is
Caption: please be kind to your agile coaches
Caption: because there's a lot to know so don't
Caption: over half a century worth of knowledge
Caption: don't expect them to know every single
Caption: methodology
Caption: but really we can talk about in 1970 the
Caption: common way that people delivered
Caption: products or projects was waterfall
Caption: delivery which some of you may be
Caption: familiar with
Caption: then we moved on into 1974
Caption: and we talked about the concept of
Caption: adaptive uh software development now my
Caption: memory is not the best so i have to read
Caption: the slide
Caption: next one was 1991 rapid app development
Caption: and then one of the ones that i
Caption: definitely do know about
Caption: is scrum so let's talk a little bit
Caption: about scrum i won't go too much into it
Caption: but it was actually inspired by the
Caption: paper that we just talked about before
Caption: so where they mentioned the rugby scrum
Caption: that was actually what led jeff
Caption: sutherland and
Caption: ken schwartz wouldn't get the name
Caption: to come up with the scrum framework
Caption: and one of the other interesting things
Caption: about scrum is from all the research
Caption: that i've looked at that's when the
Caption: product owner role was born
Caption: so let's move on to the next one so 1996
Caption: extreme programming if you've ever heard
Caption: of a spike what i understand is it came
Caption: from there
Caption: and the next part that hopefully some
Caption: people are familiar with because
Caption: everyone talks about it is the agile
Caption: manifesto so this was done in 2001 it
Caption: actually turned 20 this year
Caption: kudos
Caption: it's not a new thing
Caption: so let's talk a little bit about the
Caption: agile manifesto has anybody seen the
Caption: agile manifesto before
Caption: cool
Caption: uh does anybody know what it is
Caption: no
Caption: okay so it's you may have been exposed a
Caption: lot in organizations about frameworks
Caption: and you need to do all these things you
Caption: need to estimate you can write user
Caption: stories but actually that's not how
Caption: agile started out it started out as a
Caption: manifesto here where they talked about
Caption: four values and 12 principles and if you
Caption: wanted to work in agile and you just
Caption: followed that that would be enough to
Caption: make you operate in a better way
Caption: anything you want to share absolutely i
Caption: just want to highlight that this isn't
Caption: our beautiful slide design this is
Caption: actually a capture of the original agile
Caption: manifesto web page and i love that
Caption: they've just left it in its original
Caption: vintage state
Caption: yeah this was born in a two-day
Caption: conference in uh ski resort in utah so
Caption: it's been 20 years maybe
Caption: we had another one yeah for sure
Caption: i'm on board with that
Caption: so we've talked a little bit we've
Caption: talked quite a lot actually thank you on
Caption: like the history of agile and how it's
Caption: developed over the years the evolution
Caption: of it but let's talk a little bit more
Caption: about what organizations are using
Caption: currently so we've mentioned scrum
Caption: the state of agile released a report
Caption: every year and the 14th report is really
Caption: growing because it highlights that scrum
Caption: as a methodology is the most commonly
Caption: used
Caption: project
Caption: project management framework used by
Caption: organizations and it's great because it
Caption: highlights that scrum being the simplest
Caption: one is so widely used it's very closely
Caption: followed by scrum then which is a
Caption: combination of two of the most
Caption: simple ones as well
Caption: you got a couple of hybrids that come in
Caption: just behind them there and then you do
Caption: have kanban and that's where that scrum
Caption: then comes from scrum across kanban gets
Caption: you scrum band kanban is a really great
Caption: methodology too because it doesn't
Caption: actually confine into two-week sprints
Caption: into deliver value and it's also widely
Caption: used across different organizations
Caption: across different industries not just for
Caption: software development i find it's been
Caption: used a lot in marketing teams or even
Caption: leadership teams to just try and keep
Caption: people accountable and keep the work
Caption: moving that's it and i love this you've
Caption: got a couple of others that come through
Caption: but there's a couple of organizations
Caption: that actually don't know
Caption: what they use and it'll be interesting
Caption: to be a fly on the wall and those are
Caption: kind of uh organization and project
Caption: planning meetings who knows what we're
Caption: doing no one knows
Caption: but if scrum is the simple one of the
Caption: simplest methodologies to use and it's
Caption: also the most common what does a scrum
Caption: team actually look like
Caption: of course you start off with your scrum
Caption: master they are there to make the team
Caption: home they are there to support enable
Caption: and empower your team to actually do the
Caption: work and build the product
Caption: you've got a product owner which is the
Caption: focus of aquaport today but in one line
Caption: they're there to make sure that the
Caption: product that you're building is valuable
Caption: actually delivers business value
Caption: i think it's important to call out as
Caption: well when the scrum guide was updated i
Caption: think it was last year they actually
Caption: made it responsible for the scrum team
Caption: to be delivering value so the product
Caption: owner's still leading it but you if
Caption: you're in a scrum team you still have a
Caption: responsibility to care about value
Caption: absolutely and let's talk about the last
Caption: players that are commonly found in scrum
Caption: teams you've got your development team
Caption: they've got a couple of roles up on the
Caption: screen here you've got your developers
Caption: beers ux ui designers but it doesn't
Caption: have to be developers within a
Caption: development team it's basically any
Caption: combination of role that you need to
Caption: actually build your product to actually
Caption: do the work
Caption: it could be content it could be
Caption: marketing there's like a whole different
Caption: suite where people have gone and
Caption: taken all the functions that they need
Caption: to be able to deliver a product and put
Caption: them in one team to stop that handover
Caption: absolutely it's also worth calling out
Caption: the scrum guide doesn't recognize those
Caption: other disciplines but they do talk about
Caption: the three roles it talks about scrum
Caption: master product owner and development
Caption: team
Caption: let's zoom in on the product owner
Caption: the product owner
Caption: the scrum product owner is accountable
Caption: for maximizing the value of a product
Caption: resulting from the work of this grunting
Caption: what does that actually mean how do you
Caption: see that in practice let's digest it a
Caption: little bit it's worth calling out one of
Caption: the names that you should look up is
Caption: roman pitchler so roman pitchler has
Caption: done a product management framework and
Caption: i know we're talking about product
Caption: ownership but product owner actually
Caption: belongs in the product management space
Caption: and he really talks about the difference
Caption: of a product owner in scrum versus a
Caption: product owner in the likes of safe or
Caption: scaled agile so in the larger larger
Caption: organizations the responsibilities of a
Caption: product owner might be a lot more
Caption: focused than if you're in a true scrum
Caption: team where you have to be thinking about
Caption: the vision and the road map and maybe
Caption: are a little bit more empowered
Caption: absolutely
Caption: now i know that we've talked a little
Caption: bit about a core scrum team and we've
Caption: talked about how a product owner is
Caption: responsible for driving the value
Caption: but let's wanted to give you an example
Caption: of how delivering business value
Caption: actually requires a symbiotic
Caption: relationship
Caption: with multiple stakeholders that you
Caption: might come across
Caption: i want to talk to you a little bit about
Caption: some roles that aren't traditional scrum
Caption: roles but you might actually find them
Caption: and you might have encountered them in
Caption: different organizations and different
Caption: projects that you've worked on really
Caption: because there were so many hybrid models
Caption: and hybrid approaches that people use
Caption: too
Caption: first up a product owner has to work
Caption: quite closely with the project sponsor
Caption: they are more of an external facing role
Caption: in the team and they really own that
Caption: vision with the product owner
Caption: the product owner themselves is
Caption: responsible for that value there is
Caption: their internal and external facing they
Caption: get the they get the vision and they
Caption: communicate that to the customers bring
Caption: that in and understand exactly what
Caption: their issues are and use that to
Caption: prioritize the backlog and deliver value
Caption: through the development team
Caption: a product owner has to work very closely
Caption: with the business analyst
Caption: business analysts are more internal
Caption: facing they are more in charge of the
Caption: details they manage and they gather
Caption: requirements and they refine them and
Caption: they're there to facilitate
Caption: conversations that they bring key
Caption: players into the room to facilitate a
Caption: decision
Caption: but the ultimate owner of decisions is a
Caption: product owner you're actually pretty
Caption: lucky if you have a ba and your product
Caption: owner so that some of the weight is
Caption: taken off with shaping up that backlog
Caption: and getting user insight and all of
Caption: those things if you work really well
Caption: with your ba and have that really good
Caption: strong relationship you can just keep
Caption: driving that product forward absolutely
Caption: it's a big role so any help is welcome
Caption: and finally the relationship between a
Caption: product owner and a scrum master has
Caption: been likened in some of our research to
Caption: the relationship between a ceo and a ceo
Caption: you've got your product owner out there
Caption: screaming shouting the vision from the
Caption: rooftops and then you've got your scrum
Caption: master who's there responsible for
Caption: retrospectives and responsible from your
Caption: agile ceremonies and
Caption: running refinements and making sure the
Caption: team hum and making sure the team are
Caption: enabled to do exactly what they need to
Caption: they're really good when you need the
Caption: team to be protected as well so lean on
Caption: your scrum master if you need a little
Caption: bit of support and you're not getting
Caption: where you need to absolutely
Caption: but sometimes the importance of a
Caption: product owner definitely gets lost which
Caption: we have seen in multiple organizations
Caption: and i think i was very lucky at the
Caption: start of my product on our journey to
Caption: work in places who already understood
Caption: the value but in more recent years i've
Caption: been focused in companies who actually
Caption: have forgotten that and have proxy
Caption: product owners or just don't have the
Caption: role at all yeah absolutely
Caption: more and more we're seeing organizations
Caption: who undervalue the role of a product
Caption: owner and of course the scrum master as
Caption: well and ask one individual to actually
Caption: take on both of these responsibilities
Caption: we've talked about how a product owner
Caption: is there to deliver business value and
Caption: is there to be the voice of the customer
Caption: and is there to understand what the
Caption: customers advocate for what the orders
Caption: that they want delivered
Caption: the scrum master on the other hand is
Caption: there to advocate for the development
Caption: team and protect them and make sure that
Caption: whatever is being delivered is being
Caption: delivered sustainable in a way the
Caption: development team can actually keep up
Caption: with the demand
Caption: now being able to make decisions
Caption: uh when you have one person doing both
Caption: of these two roles advocating for
Caption: different stakeholders
Caption: it's really difficult that internal
Caption: friction that you have with these two
Caption: roles is so healthy and so important you
Caption: need that balance
Caption: between what the customer wants and what
Caption: can actually be delivered as well and
Caption: it's so important to actually have those
Caption: in two separate roles i call them the
Caption: two-headed monster where you would have
Caption: a scrum master and a product owner so
Caption: and if you have them both do it like
Caption: you've got one person doing those roles
Caption: you're gonna find one's going to lean
Caption: towards the team more and the team's
Caption: going to be spot on but they won't be
Caption: delivering much or you'll find that
Caption: they'll be really leaning towards that
Caption: product vision and the future and they
Caption: have a massively outweighted backlog but
Caption: the team are having all sorts of
Caption: challenges absolutely the next one is
Caption: also what i'm seeing so if we
Caption: yeah
Caption: so
Caption: we'll get there
Caption: so agile teams with no product owner
Caption: touched on that a little bit earlier on
Caption: so i couldn't quite find the image that
Caption: i wanted but if you imagine this boat
Caption: was round probably a little bit more
Caption: like a life raft and you had a whole
Caption: team on it no product owner no leader
Caption: no direction didn't know where they were
Caption: going just hoping someone's going to
Caption: help them out and tell them what they
Caption: need or come and pick them up and find
Caption: them that's kind of what it looks like
Caption: with an agile team with no product owner
Caption: now imagine that you have
Caption: ruingo and you've got someone at the
Caption: helm direct in the direction you have a
Caption: map you know where the end is you know
Caption: where you need to get to everybody's
Caption: rowing at the same time everybody's on
Caption: board you know you've got that rhythm
Caption: that's what it feels like when you have
Caption: a strong product owner working really
Caption: well with their development team
Caption: but
Caption: even product owners can get it wrong
Caption: so i just want to tell you about that
Caption: sure
Caption: let's understand what anti-pattern is
Caption: an anti-pattern is a commonly used
Caption: process that despite initially appearing
Caption: to be an appropriate and effective
Caption: response to a problem
Caption: in fact has more bad consequences than
Caption: good ones
Caption: what does that actually mean let's take
Caption: a look at this video and hopefully tell
Caption: us something interesting and hopefully
Caption: it'll work yeah
Caption: hey jerry jerry are you okay with this
Caption: hinge
Caption: yeah cause i can get you any kind of one
Caption: you know four holes two holes bronze no
Caption: hinge at all you know why don't we just
Caption: go with the one in your hand
Caption: these are different drop one
Caption: left
Caption: do you want a flat edge on this molding
Caption: or do you want me to uh bevel it i'll
Caption: tell you what i'd like you to do with it
Caption: yeah
Caption: is it
Caption: conrad connie or khan whatever you
Caption: prefer
Caption: listen let me ask a question could you
Caption: um expand the space underneath the desk
Caption: you know give it a little more head room
Caption: tied up here whatever jerry wants he
Caption: wants to be here late i'm here late he
Caption: wants me here early i'm here early he
Caption: wants me you don't want to get just work
Caption: on george's project for a while whatever
Caption: you want
Caption: hi jerry i'm sorry i'm late george and i
Caption: we've been opening up all night long uh
Caption: i can make up the time to get any number
Caption: of ways how about this finish this thing
Caption: up today couple questions no
Caption: no more questions just figure it out for
Caption: yourself and get it done
Caption: all right
Caption: but i can figure it out myself any way
Caption: you want just
Caption: do it
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: [Laughter]
Caption: every time i watch that i spot something
Caption: else that i can relate to when it comes
Caption: to product ownership um
Caption: like one of the things that in that
Caption: video i spotted that i hadn't thought
Caption: about before was
Caption: if you're not focused and giving your
Caption: team attention someone else might come
Caption: and pinch them to work on their product
Caption: that does happen what else do you see i
Caption: mean how is he gonna how's it gonna cook
Caption: where's he gonna put his head where he's
Caption: cooked when he's cooking like that's
Caption: do you wanna see what actually went
Caption: wrong and what what happened next
Caption: you want it back the way it was yeah
Caption: that's right
Caption: you know i'll get you seinfeld
Caption: you want something one day the next day
Caption: you don't like it i mean come on man
Caption: make a decision
Caption: yeah so i think it um calls out there's
Caption: a real difference between allowing your
Caption: team you know to feel like to be
Caption: autonomous and to get stuff done or not
Caption: giving them attention enough for them to
Caption: understand really the direction of the
Caption: product and you could end up and people
Caption: do end up with things that they have to
Caption: throw out and rebuild because they're
Caption: unusable absolutely yeah if you just had
Caption: the patience to test it to be present to
Caption: actually do some of that user testing
Caption: imagine you could have had a wonderful
Caption: kitchen but
Caption: that's on
Caption: dairy here's our top five
Caption: anti-power patterns yeah so let's talk
Caption: about this one uh under use of
Caption: no and over using yes so this actually
Caption: comes back to that normal cliche term
Caption: that we've heard a lot about under
Caption: promising and over delivering as a
Caption: product owner it is so easy to fall into
Caption: the trap of trying to satisfy your
Caption: customers and wanting to say yes yes yes
Caption: you'll do all of the things that they're
Caption: asking for
Caption: but
Caption: it's gonna actually stand you in good
Caption: stead later on to be able to use the
Caption: power of no in a powerful way actually
Caption: to highlight what your product actually
Caption: is and what it isn't and be able to be
Caption: reliable and be dependent on when you're
Caption: actually committing to something people
Caption: know that you will deliver because trust
Caption: me your life is so much easier when you
Caption: lower your expectations around you
Caption: if you don't want a product that has
Caption: loads of features and people can't
Caption: figure out their way around it then you
Caption: really need to get good at saying no
Caption: uh next one i like awol absent without
Caption: leave unavailable so as well as being a
Caption: product owner i have been a scrum master
Caption: and i have gone to a cafe to find the
Caption: scrum master not the scrum master that's
Caption: what i was the product owner when they
Caption: were not unavailable for stand-ups or
Caption: when they were the team had questions
Caption: and the product owner was nowhere to be
Caption: seen you know in this scenario the
Caption: stakeholders were probably pretty happy
Caption: because you know they were having coffee
Caption: with a product owner the whole time but
Caption: the dev team didn't really understand
Caption: what it was that they needed to do and
Caption: everything got stuck no nothing was
Caption: getting reviewed or moved on
Caption: next one
Caption: it's all about me
Caption: uh so donna i realize that this report
Caption: has your name on it but uh the credit
Caption: goes to me because i ordered you to do
Caption: this
Caption: uh but i actually did the work
Caption: uh well i created the culture that made
Caption: it all possible
Caption: but i did the work
Caption: this is kind of two andy patterns
Caption: stuffed into one so this is us being
Caption: sneaky here on the one hand
Caption: it is so important to give credit where
Caption: credit is due
Caption: you are responsible for the vision but
Caption: the development team are actually doing
Caption: the work and it is so important for them
Caption: to get that face time with the customer
Caption: and to build that relationship and build
Caption: that trust so your customer understands
Caption: that whenever whatever they're building
Caption: whatever is being built is being built
Caption: to a standard that they're satisfied
Caption: with
Caption: the other little anti-patent that's in
Caption: there is as a product owner you are not
Caption: a manager you are not there to manage or
Caption: give orders or direct people to do stuff
Caption: you are a leader you lead the vision and
Caption: you leave the product and you lead the
Caption: team towards success that way so stay
Caption: out of the manager lane and stay in the
Caption: product management and the leadership
Caption: language
Caption: all right designed by committee
Caption: all right i'm going to go closer so
Caption: too scary too silly too different too
Caption: dark
Caption: not our brand voice witches are
Caption: polarizing
Caption: might alienate dog owners fine we give
Caption: up um so i did work in marketing a long
Caption: time ago and i used to have a brief that
Caption: had a lot of red pen or just said can
Caption: you make something flash like i don't
Caption: really know what that means
Caption: um really this whole designing by
Caption: committee as a product owner you need to
Caption: make decisions and if you listen to too
Caption: many people in too many different voices
Caption: you're probably going to find it really
Caption: hard to make those decisions
Caption: so this is an example that freezes so
Caption: many different teams gets them stuck and
Caption: there's probably one that kind of sets
Caption: the team a little bit offside like if
Caption: you can't make a decision then you
Caption: probably shouldn't be a product owner
Caption: it's very enough to me
Caption: sure this is my favorite one caring
Caption: about the wrong metrics
Caption: so sally your output really isn't good
Caption: enough uh only 15 lines of code we
Caption: really need more do you mean the 15
Caption: lines of code that cured cancer yeah you
Caption: see 15 lines of code just really isn't
Caption: cutting it we need so much more than
Caption: that
Caption: imagine i gave you 10 seconds to draw as
Caption: many flowers as you possibly could
Caption: and then imagine i gave you 10 seconds
Caption: to draw one flower which one do you
Caption: think is going to look a little bit
Caption: better
Caption: when you
Caption: miss retrospectives and showcases and
Caption: other adult ceremonies in favor of
Caption: project status reports by email it
Caption: forces you as a product owner to focus
Caption: more on vanity metrics like velocity
Caption: burn up and burn down charts and it
Caption: helps you actually avoid
Caption: uh the value that you're delivering and
Caption: you're not actually keeping that front
Caption: of mind whatsoever value is definitely
Caption: one of the hardest things to measure but
Caption: it is the most important
Caption: leave the burn down charts and all of
Caption: those to the scrum master to help
Caption: identify challenges that the team face
Caption: they're definitely not meant to be used
Caption: to check the performance of the team
Caption: so if that is the badge what does good
Caption: look like
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: just kidding so let me just uh talk on a
Caption: few things that we've discussed that are
Caption: really important so i think one of the
Caption: things that you can get lost in as a
Caption: product owner is just writing user
Caption: stories or developing a backlog but you
Caption: actually need to be able to look up and
Caption: look forward so you need to understand
Caption: how your product fits in with the
Caption: overall business you need to have a
Caption: vision that you can share and bring
Caption: people on board with and you need to be
Caption: trying to think what is the next three
Caption: to six months to a year look like rather
Caption: than just focusing on a few sprints
Caption: ahead
Caption: decisiveness don't need to really talk
Caption: much about that again you need to be
Caption: able to make a decision uh if you can't
Caption: make a decision if you're one of those
Caption: people that spends half an hour choosing
Caption: from a menu you're probably not right
Caption: for a product on a roll
Caption: tenacity uh you're going to be exposed
Caption: to so many challenges and you need to be
Caption: able to get through those
Caption: for the better for it and not give up so
Caption: i find this is a really good trait in a
Caption: product owner
Caption: passionate
Caption: if you don't care no one else will so
Caption: make sure that you are working on
Caption: something you care about if you don't
Caption: care about you should probably look at
Caption: another product
Caption: and you need to be able to kind of lead
Caption: with that passion and help bring people
Caption: on the journey with you because as ice
Caption: mentioned before you're not manager you
Caption: can't mandate or tell people to do it
Caption: you actually have to make them want to
Caption: do it
Caption: and last up that kind of links in with
Caption: storytelling so you need to be able to
Caption: spin a yarn don't ever assume that
Caption: people know the journey that you've been
Caption: on try and bring them back to the data
Caption: or the user information that you have
Caption: problems you're trying to solve instead
Caption: of just talking about what it is you've
Caption: delivered
Caption: so
Caption: next up but what do they do
Caption: so kind of touched on it already so they
Caption: lead the product vision and direction
Caption: if they are lost in a backlog they're
Caption: not really kind of doing that direction
Caption: they need to be a really good
Caption: communicator so you need to be able to
Caption: take your insights and bring them back
Caption: to the team and bring them on the
Caption: journey and you also need to be able to
Caption: do that outside the team
Caption: responsible for the backlog so let me
Caption: just refresh what that means uh teams
Caption: customers stakeholders so let's just
Caption: clear it up you are not responsible for
Caption: every single story that's in the backlog
Caption: but you are eliciting those from others
Caption: and building out the backlog if you have
Caption: to just do that you are going to be very
Caption: busy so actually leverage the people you
Caption: have around you to define what that
Caption: backlog should look like
Caption: what do you think about this one voice
Caption: of the customer so we talked about it a
Caption: lot especially um about internal
Caption: external communication but where do you
Caption: get that value and that vision actually
Caption: from you're getting that from the
Caption: customer as a product owner you're
Caption: advocating for them and advocating for
Caption: what it is that you know that they need
Caption: and that's actually going to deliver
Caption: value for them and impact them in a
Caption: positive way
Caption: how about this next one
Caption: ruthless prioritization so this was
Caption: actually a quote from our cto at jenny1
Caption: thank you christian thanks christian
Caption: as a product owner you need to be
Caption: ruthless when it comes to prioritizing
Caption: stuff in your backlog you need to be
Caption: very clear on what your product is and
Caption: what it isn't and you can't do
Caption: everything and you shouldn't do
Caption: absolutely every single story in there
Caption: and you really need to be able to make
Caption: that decision to say no this is not
Caption: something that we're doing now or we're
Caption: not doing this ever
Caption: and finally as you need to be as a
Caption: product owner this is probably the best
Caption: part of it i think being able to accept
Caption: user stories and making sure things are
Caption: done done and hopefully towards the end
Caption: of this you'll actually get a chance to
Caption: hopefully sign up on some of our
Caption: acceptance criteria that we set for you
Caption: earlier as well
Caption: we'll pay you in coffee
Caption: so how do you know you're doing it right
Caption: donna i love it sometimes when people
Caption: are when you're building a really good
Caption: product and people can actually see the
Caption: value of delivery and they want a piece
Caption: of the pie your inbox is just full of
Caption: requests for copies and interactions to
Caption: see what it is and how they can get
Caption: involved in it
Caption: your team is actually reminding you of
Caption: the vision and that's a great indicator
Caption: that you yourself are very clear on your
Caption: vision and you're communicating it
Caption: really well and quite regularly and if
Caption: they're able to shout it back at you
Caption: that's a really great indicator of how
Caption: well you're doing with your vision
Caption: the team you're working with are
Caption: actually all talking about the customer
Caption: as well so they understand exactly what
Caption: they're building why they're building it
Caption: how their customers gonna use it and how
Caption: it's actually gonna impact their job
Caption: they understand the value that they are
Caption: delivering as well some of the best
Caption: conversations i've had with dev teams
Caption: has been when they actually challenge me
Caption: it reminds me that doesn't actually
Caption: align with what the customer problem is
Caption: so having that like really intentional
Caption: safe friction where you're able to
Caption: reflect on the users and you know the
Caption: team push back on you it's a great spot
Caption: absolutely
Caption: why would anyone fight you when you're
Caption: asking for budget because i can clearly
Caption: see the value that you're delivering the
Caption: return on investment that you've been
Caption: able to demonstrate previously it's just
Caption: a winner
Caption: and finally your customers your
Caption: stakeholders are actually saying no for
Caption: you it ties back in with knowing your
Caption: vision and making it so clear internally
Caption: and externally your customers are very
Caption: clear on what your product is and what
Caption: it is not and they understand where
Caption: something might go whether it be on your
Caption: backlog now whether it be on your
Caption: roadmap for the future but they're
Caption: actually saying no for you
Caption: so let's talk about one of the hardest
Caption: parts of being a product owner i just
Caption: smiling because how i get through
Caption: product ownership is definitely a sense
Caption: of humor so one of the hardest parts is
Caption: stakeholders
Caption: and it's a bit of a zoo out there when
Caption: it comes to stakeholders and we're going
Caption: to talk about some of the members of
Caption: that zoo so ice let's kick us off
Caption: has anyone heard of the hippo yep cool
Caption: yep highest paid person's opinion so
Caption: not picking on ceos but it could be a
Caption: ceo it could be a general manager it
Caption: could be a project it might not be
Caption: totally wrong but they really believe in
Caption: their opinion and they're going to come
Caption: into your team and they're going to tell
Caption: you this is the most important thing
Caption: that you need to do what do you do in
Caption: that case such right so you need to be
Caption: able to empower them to make the right
Caption: decision but the way you do that is
Caption: giving them information and giving them
Caption: data and giving them examples and
Caption: evidence of what you're going to be
Caption: doing but the thing is they are not
Caption: going to be interested in the guts of
Caption: the work they're not going to be
Caption: interested in your back end code and all
Caption: of that kind of stuff you need to
Caption: provide them with information to make
Caption: the right decision at a level that's
Caption: just for them
Caption: awesome
Caption: next one
Caption: rhino
Caption: really high value new opportunity they
Caption: like shiny things uh could be quoted to
Caption: say i have an idea of course they have
Caption: an idea they always have an idea uh they
Caption: always have the latest feature latest
Caption: thing in the market uh we should be
Caption: doing this because someone else is doing
Caption: it yep we want that one too and you
Caption: never really get a chance to finish off
Caption: what you're already doing because
Caption: they're always throwing something that's
Caption: new at you
Caption: to deal with a write-up to tame the
Caption: rhino i think the best thing you can do
Caption: here is have a really clear
Caption: prioritization framework and have a
Caption: really clear roadmap demonstrate to the
Caption: rhino that you're not just randomly
Caption: saying yes or no to any features or
Caption: anything that's coming in but it
Caption: actually fits in somewhere and the story
Caption: makes sense
Caption: one of the things with the rhino as well
Caption: is don't give in to the beast because
Caption: when you do they're going to come back
Caption: with more ideas of course so try really
Caption: hard to not let the rhino in
Caption: next up
Caption: seagull well it's probably in a zoo
Caption: eating from the bins but a
Caption: loose connection there but the image
Caption: kind of tells you all about the one
Caption: minute manager known as the seagull
Caption: doesn't have a fancy acronym so this
Caption: person just swoops in when there is a
Caption: problem you've probably not seen them
Caption: for months they've probably been off
Caption: sorting out some else someone else's
Caption: problem
Caption: but they really like problems they're
Caption: kind of attracted to them and they come
Caption: in and they shout and they blame
Caption: everyone and they make them feel about
Caption: this big
Caption: uh so i what do you do when you have a
Caption: seagull that likes to swoop in and
Caption: everywhere and then sleep
Caption: apart from crying
Caption: being there yeah as a product owner i
Caption: think all you can do in this situation
Caption: is bring your scrum master into the room
Caption: and work tag team this right but you
Caption: need to do your best to protect and
Caption: shield your team from this person i
Caption: think it comes a little bit back to the
Caption: design by committee where everyone's
Caption: going to have an opinion on something
Caption: but it's up to you as a product owner to
Caption: decide what you'll take on and what you
Caption: want
Caption: next up
Caption: wolf
Caption: working on the latest fire so they also
Caption: like problems but they like them you
Caption: know in the multitude and actually
Caption: probably lost sight of value they just
Caption: are always thinking this is a problem
Caption: this needs fixed you know we need to do
Caption: this better
Caption: and focusing on that rather than how can
Caption: we deliver more customer value so how do
Caption: we deal with a wolf they have a short
Caption: attention span you know they're quite
Caption: disruptive absolutely yeah but i get it
Caption: right like i get it's scary to be
Caption: building a product and see so much of
Caption: technical debt racking up see so many
Caption: bugs that are coming through as well
Caption: i think the best thing to do with the
Caption: wolf really is to sit them down and go
Caption: through a bit of a structured approach
Caption: there's a couple of different ways that
Caption: you can tackle technical
Caption: bugs and issues you can either dedicate
Caption: one sprint to just bug stomping get it
Caption: all out of the way get it done and then
Caption: move on
Caption: or you can also do an approach where
Caption: you're actually committing to taking a
Caption: couple of stories and a couple of bugs
Caption: into every single sprint and keep going
Caption: with that approach until you're all
Caption: satisfied with how the products going
Caption: so last but not least
Caption: zebra
Caption: zero evidence but really arrogant
Caption: um
Caption: so they have a gut feeling uh they have
Caption: nothing really to back up they're so
Caption: sure you know it's kind of similar we're
Caption: not saying that they come in certain
Caption: boxes you might find they have
Caption: multitudes of these
Caption: kind of different traits um but this one
Caption: really comes in and has absolutely no
Caption: evidence to back it up and it's really
Caption: probably not they don't need to be
Caption: senior they're just really sure on their
Caption: opinion
Caption: data
Caption: bring them on the journey with you show
Caption: them the evidence show them the data
Caption: show them your research and show them
Caption: how you've demonstrated that what you're
Caption: doing works
Caption: let them know that you're willing to
Caption: maybe test their idea for a new feature
Caption: out in a low-cost low-risk way but be
Caption: very clear from the start that you're
Caption: not willing to significantly invest in
Caption: their idea without a proper proof of
Caption: concept and some evidence backing it
Caption: so with all of that
Caption: what animal would make a good product
Caption: owner
Caption: nobody cool
Caption: no ideas not an animal
Caption: no they're a zookeeper so i actually
Caption: went into the depths of the internet to
Caption: try and make a connection here and found
Caption: a zookeeper job description which
Caption: definitely has two descriptions that
Caption: suit a product owner so one is you need
Caption: to understand the behavior of your
Caption: animals or your stakeholders and and the
Caption: other one is that you need to tailor
Caption: your approach depending on who they are
Caption: so you need to think about what you can
Caption: do to really kind of get the best from
Caption: your stakeholders and appease them and
Caption: keep your team
Caption: working working forward
Caption: so hopefully we haven't scared you off
Caption: are you still thinking about being a
Caption: product owner
Caption: let's talk a little bit about what
Caption: success look like we've touched on all
Caption: this already but repetition is going to
Caption: help us all right so
Caption: key things i won't touch them too much
Caption: vision know where you're heading
Caption: road map you know it's good to have some
Caption: real good outcomes that you want to
Caption: achieve as you go forward don't get
Caption: stuck in a gantt chart that's another
Caption: story
Caption: backlog um continuously that's why the
Caption: infinity symbol is there
Caption: i have had questions about backlog it's
Caption: not a once-off
Caption: kind of activity it's a continuous
Caption: activity in fact really when you learn
Caption: anything new you should be going back to
Caption: the backlog and thinking
Caption: is this still the thing that we should
Caption: be working on but not a sprint backlog
Caption: that's for the scrum master to talk to
Caption: you about success matters
Caption: make sure that you're not only talking
Caption: about what you think the value is that
Caption: you're going to drive but try and find a
Caption: way to measure it so
Caption: if you can actually measure it it really
Caption: helps you with budget requirements helps
Caption: you with your team and it helps you
Caption: understand where it is you should be
Caption: taking the product next
Caption: a one pager so uh if you look at the
Caption: atlassian health check so there is an
Caption: atlassian playbook which is pretty
Caption: helpful um they have a health check and
Caption: it talks about one pager which isn't
Caption: something that is asked for necessarily
Caption: in all of the different types of
Caption: methodologies that we've talked about
Caption: but it's your poster and it helps people
Caption: understand what it is you do in a
Caption: language that they can understand
Caption: and the final part 100 committed utopia
Caption: if you could get a product donor that
Caption: could just be with you full time you
Caption: would have way more success
Caption: good one than you would if you had like
Caption: part-time or what i've seen whether 0.1
Caption: of an fte which is yeah definitely not
Caption: enough to be really successful in the
Caption: role absolutely
Caption: now it seems like we painted a bit of a
Caption: picture of a fantasy here with unicorns
Caption: and
Caption: you need to be able to do everything all
Caption: the ones all the time but i really want
Caption: to highlight that this is
Caption: about you as a product owner leading the
Caption: vision being value obsessed and focusing
Caption: more on growth not perfection if you're
Caption: able to work towards
Caption: your ideal vision with some of these
Caption: things in mind you'll be right
Caption: yeah roman pitcher actually talks about
Caption: it if you use his product management
Caption: framework then you could just pick the
Caption: things that you need to work on and just
Caption: continuously evolve on that you don't
Caption: need to be perfect to everything
Caption: and just how you get started so i'll
Caption: give you a bit of my experience i fell
Caption: into product ownership so when i first
Caption: became a product owner i wouldn't say i
Caption: really knew what that meant um and the
Caption: reason that i ended up there was because
Caption: i was working in a digital space and i
Caption: was working on websites and i was
Caption: wondering what was happening to all the
Caption: customers as they went through the sales
Caption: funnel they just kind of disappear and i
Caption: had this target at the end but actually
Caption: island could impact this park
Caption: um so what i did was i actually got a
Caption: role in some legacy systems that no one
Caption: wanted to do because they were dying but
Caption: the thing is you know users still using
Caption: those systems i think as well are still
Caption: around so for me that gave me an in i
Caption: chose a role that no one else wanted to
Caption: do
Caption: um
Caption: so i would recommend that you have a
Caption: look for opportunities like that you
Caption: need to if you're a product owner then
Caption: you should be attracted to new
Caption: opportunities and and also find yourself
Caption: a mentor and figure out what your
Caption: organization already has or you know if
Caption: you're working in our organization and
Caption: you're doing really well it's gonna be
Caption: easier to find a role in an organization
Caption: that knows you than maybe starting out
Caption: with another one
Caption: and there's so many people you can lean
Caption: on and meet up so you can lean on as
Caption: well absolutely speaking of people that
Caption: you can lean on here is where we
Caption: actually gathered a lot of our
Caption: inspiration for this talk we've got
Caption: people like jeff payton melissa perry
Caption: marty kagan and roman pictures or who
Caption: we've mentioned multiple times through
Caption: that we drew a lot of what we've created
Caption: here today based on some of the
Caption: incredible talks and incredible books
Caption: and whatever else the research that
Caption: these people have put together
Caption: and we've also got a couple of product
Caption: owner communities that you can actually
Caption: be a part of as well and there's a lot
Caption: of support out there for this i think
Caption: so given where we've got to ice what
Caption: we're going to talk about next
Caption: have we
Caption: accepted our acceptance criteria so
Caption: you're all product owners for today yeah
Caption: and we'd like you to just quickly go
Caption: through this and see if we've met the
Caption: acceptance criteria i will caveat that
Caption: if you say no then you need to speak to
Caption: us afterwards
Caption: so do you feel like we've understood
Caption: agile at a high level and understand
Caption: where the product owner role was born
Caption: fantastic
Caption: do we feel like we've understood common
Caption: challenges with a role whether that's
Caption: being a product owner actually working
Caption: with
Caption: one we're good
Caption: do we feel like we've understood common
Caption: angie patterns
Caption: amazing
Caption: do you feel like you understand common
Caption: stakeholder types that you might
Caption: encounter and maybe how to deal with
Caption: them and how to get started on that
Caption: and if you want to be a product owner do
Caption: you feel like you understand how you
Caption: might get started in the role
Caption: amazing
Caption: awesome
Caption: i just want to leave with one more
Caption: question what do they actually own
Caption: that's the one thing i know that we
Caption: haven't talked about uh the answer and i
Caption: might get a few looks here is nothing uh
Caption: if you look at melissa parry she wrote
Caption: the book the build trap and she will
Caption: tell you that the name actually causes a
Caption: wealth of confusion and the product is
Caption: actually owned by the team at stretch
Caption: you can say they own the decision and
Caption: they own driving the value
Caption: so there is so much more that we can
Caption: cover and so much more that we can talk
Caption: about including that last part though we
Caption: want to be able to unpack that so we've
Caption: actually put together a little bit of a
Caption: backlog ourselves so hopefully you'll
Caption: get to keep an eye out for product
Caption: ownership part two
Caption: but until then with your feedback we'll
Caption: figure out where that looks exactly
Caption: thank you very much folks thank you